---
layout: single
date: 2022-08-12
title: "Importance of Logging"
---

I think logging our daily lives is important. Our brains are not capable of capturing all the details of the events that happen every day, thus only snippets are preserved. Our memories are actually created from snippets that are stored in our brain. When we retrieve our memories, we think we remember the whole thing as it is but it is actually our brain reconstructing the scenario from the stored snippets. And often times, they are not quite accurate. 

When we log our lives by the end of each day, that's when our memory of what happened throughout the day is the freshest and most intact. And by reading our journal, we get a more accurate recollection of the happenings with the aid of our own words of the past. 

I regret not writing my diary more diligently and not logging the process throughout my summer internship with Amex in 2021. Now all the happenings last summer is a blur and I struggle to remember what I learnt and what I did. 

Taking photos is also another excellent way to preserve the moment. I have been trying to take more photos of me and my friends whenever we hangout and do something fun. Or pictures of good food I had and places I went. Even if they all seem normal at the moment, I never regret taking them because when I look back, it always makes me think "Ooo I ate this!" "Ah the sunset was pretty." "My workplace looked like this!"

Here's to taking more photos📷🌈(even if it's awkward to ask, I mean it always is) and journaling more! 🖋️
